my name is Chris heavy and I've been
working on
i PLD to the medical ng domain I've been
working in medical imaging and
healthcare for most of my career over 20
years now and really excited about
moving from a field which is primarily
about mutable data into the world of
content addressed data and obviously
that brought me to the idea thus
protocol labs I peeled ebrill so just a
couple of quick slides I have through to
the other year so one in terms of
background or so in medical imaging and
in healthcare standards are really
important and the standard for medical
imaging is called DICOM and basically
what it does is it takes a given image
like a CT scan or MRI or an x-ray and it
puts it in one file and in the file at
the very beginning of file are things is
a header which has like patient name
date of birth gender and then the pixel
data and I think there's been you
probably heard of people using my PFS
for medical imaging in the past but
there's a real big problem with it and
that is this header does tend to change
over time kind of breaking the whole
unity content Dressel model that we
would want with I can't fast now we
actually want healthcare too and so a
couple examples when that can happen is
if you get married or you change your
name for some reason that can trigger
basically a rewrite of these files if
your genders change sometimes you can
take this pixel data and compress it
from you know one image compression
formats and other different kinds of
things
so taking kind of standards-compliant
DICOM files of putting ipfs is not the
best strategy for us to do and so that
brought me down the route of IPL d and
kind of thinking about how can I take
daikon and storing it in a smart way
niya PLD to get the benefits of
immutability once you can see here's
obviously a split the file in two to one
with the header which has a little
fingerprint like a CID so BC all the
kind of metadata is in one chunk and
then the pixel data isn't another chunk
about this is just a very high-level
abbreviate form there's a lot more
technical depth of details I've actually
prototypes that's using GSI PFS and it
works is pretty cool but I want to kind
of communicate the high level things
about what I've discovered or what I do
and also collect feedback people have it
but basically splitting the DICOM file
into two and storing it directly in IP
LD it turns out there's a if you haven't
gotten into I killed me too much it's
like a whole of the world of data
modeling and they have various schemas
that they've defined and are defining
that do different things so what I'm is
called flexible byte layout and what
that does is take basically an array of
bytes and then stores it in a
multi-block manner and so that way works
well for storing standards-compliant
icon files but then also getting the
benefits of immutability by separating
the two and so by using something like
this I can store the pixel data which
doesn't change independently at the
header data and change it and get the
benefits of immutability and also change
tracking if you take this and you go
like into healthcare in general here's
like a typical healthcare data model it
is inherently graph based you have a
patient
you know there's demographics up here
maybe I'm multiple image studies they
have taken over carry of their life
various encounters observations reports
lab results and machine learning results
and so this is actually kind of taken
from the healthcare or standards space
right now in terms of how we think about
things and what I'm looking at doing is
how can I apply that in IP LD world
so essentially what it kind of requires
is assigning kind of like grouping these
different pieces of data together into
so they can be kind as a single block or
single CID and so there's some natural
kind of break points to connect the
existing healthcare data model into the
IPL do I build the world by assigning C
IDs different points and you can see I
also added the concept of a root appear
this gives me essentially change
tracking and a longitudinal sense
whereas changes the patient record occur
I can record that and then basically
generate a new root so in this case I've
maybe change something in the patient
demographics that the name is changed I
generate a new block I peel the object
if you will with a new C I need a new
group I can reuse basically all the
existing data that's already stored in
IPL D and in
is the pixel data which is way down here
the bottom image printed so images are
huge they count for something like 80%
of the storage in a hospital and there's
huge benefits making immutable and not
even deal with changing the data but
basically making it reusable and not
only within just general clinical care
for healthcare but also some new things
which are emerging like machine learning
an AI and image sharing using on the top
is open digraph sync with the PP shows a
lot of products so anyway I'm really
excited about this really happy to have
found this community that you guys are
doing fantastic work and just thought to
share a little bit about how I'm looking
at applying the work that you're doing
into medical imaging space thanks
you